Ali Nuhu: Kannywood’s Poster Child  As a young boy, Ali Nuhu loved acting. This love he carried into adulthood, refusing to let go of his dream to become a professional actor.And so when after graduation from university he received a job offer from the federal civil service, he didn’t need to think twice before turning it down. A geography graduate from the University of Jos, Nigeria, Ali Nuhu is not just an award-winning actor, but also a movie producer and director.His career received a major boost after he featured in a British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) sponsored TV series titled Wetin Dey, which aired on the Nigerian Television Authority network between 2007 and 2008.Since then,the versatile Ali Nuhu has continued to prove that he is no ‘local champion’, limited only to the Hausa movie industry, as he is also well received in Nollywood. Nuhu, who is an ambassador for Globacom and Royco, has won several awards. He won the Best Upcoming Actor award at the third Africa Movie Academy Awards and was nominated as the Best Actor in a Supporting Role at the ninth Africa Movie Academy Awards. He won Best Actor in a Film at the 2013 Nigeria Entertainment Awards. Nuhu’s fan base continuesto increase and is spread across the country.He is considered somewhat a role model for the younger generation.  Kemi Adetiba: Making TV Viewing A Delight  From a little girl who used to accompany her dad – a renowned veteran of the Nigerian media industry – to work, Kemi Adetiba has morphed into a big-time music video and television director and filmmaker, whose work has been featured on Channel O, Soundcity TV, BET and MTV Base. One could say that her appearing in an Omo Detergent commercialwhen she was in primary school marked the beginning of her journey into the media world. However, her OAP (on-air personality) stint with Rhythm 93.7FM as a UniLag student, where she was the brain behind and voice on two nationally syndicated hit shows – Sunday at the Seaside and Soul’d Out–were probably the springboard she needed. Adetiba’s career took a major leap when she ventured into television. And now, having hosted a couple of hit shows on M-Net (Studio 53, Temptation), Soundcity (Lifestyle, Celebrity Profiles, Chat Room and others) and the popular Maltina Dance All, she, no doubt, sits among the A-list players in the industry. Her success as a television personality did not diminish her passion for self-development and so she enrolled in the New York Film Academy in 2007. Today, Adetiba is anaward-winning director, producer and cinematographer whose work has gone beyond Nigeria and the shores of Africa. Adetiba won the City People Entertainment Award for Best Music Video Director of the Year 2015 and was also nominated for Best Music Video Director of the Year at The Headies 2014. Some of her work has won awards like Best Female Video at the 2009 Soundcity Music Awards for the song Ekundayo by singer/songwriter TY Bello. Omawumi’s Today Na Today video won Best Female Video at the Nigerian Entertainment Awards in New York and was nominated for Best Music Video at the 2010 Soundcity Awards and lots more. Adetiba has paid her dues and therefore, earned her place among other Nigerian women whose stories constantly encourage younger people never to rest on their oars.  Helen Paul Bamisile: Conquering With Comedy And More  Although she is popularly known as a stand-up comedian, she also does many other things that qualify her as a Jack-Of-All-Trades, yet master of all. She is a writer, singer, compere, radio and TV presenter, an actress and an entrepreneur whose story would challenge many folks. Helen Paul grew up as a funny young girl who would entertain her peers and friends in the neighbourhood. That was long before comedy became the lucrative enterprise that eventually shot her into the limelight. From her modest desk at Eco FM studio’s reception, being a back-up singer and a voice-over artiste to becoming a prominent actress and comedienne, her story is a narration that emphasises the virtues of hard work. She had her first formal opportunity to perform as a stand-up comedian during an event in which the invited MC/stand-up comedian failed to show up. She was a student. Urged on by friends who believed in her abilities, she mounted the stage and stunned the audience with a sterling performance. That day marked the beginning of her journey into an industry where she has now carved a niche for herself with the “Tatafo” character. In 2012, the enterprising Helen opened Massive Fabrics and Bridals – a boutique based in Lagos. She also founded Helen Paul Theatre and Film Academy, a professional multi-media school that deals with every aspect of theatre and film.Her mission is to create opportunities for young Nigerians who have a passion for the entertainment industry as well as provide training. She has several awards to her credit, which include the 2012 African Film Awards (Afro-Hollywood, UK) Comedienne of the Year and the 2014 Nigerian Broadcasters Merit Award’s Outstanding TV Presenter (Female; Entertainment/Talk Show). Helen Paul is also an ambassador for Globacom, Harpic and GOtv and is presently doing a PhD programme.Without a doubt she deserves a seat among those who provide positive influence for young people.